---
layout: post
title: Looking for another 240z
date: '2023-03-10T14:37:30+00:00'
permalink: st-louis-240z
image: 240z-1.jpg
categories: 
featured: true
---
Looking for a Datsun 240z in St. Louis!

If you're selling a project, be sure to let me know! [240z@christoc.com](mailto:240z@christoc.com)

The 1973 Datsun 240Z, also known as the Nissan Fairlady Z in Japan, is a classic sports car that gained popularity for its sleek design, impressive performance, and affordability. Here is a summary of the car's history, design, and production details:

## History:
The Datsun 240Z was first introduced in 1969 as a 1970 model, marking the beginning of a line of successful sports cars from Datsun, a subsidiary of Nissan. It was designed to appeal to the American market and was influenced by European sports cars of the era. The 240Z quickly gained a reputation for its powerful performance, striking looks, and accessible price point.

## Design:
The 240Z showcased a timeless design that combined elements of a classic sports car with a touch of Japanese styling. Its long hood, short rear deck, and low-slung profile gave it a dynamic and aerodynamic appearance. The sleek body featured flowing lines, a prominent grille, and rounded headlights. The interior provided a driver-focused cockpit with comfortable seating, intuitive controls, and sufficient legroom.

## Engine and Performance:
Under the hood, the 1973 240Z featured a 2.4-liter inline-six engine, hence the name 240Z, delivering around 151 horsepower and 146 lb-ft of torque. This engine was known for its smooth power delivery and responsiveness. It was paired with a four-speed manual transmission or an optional three-speed automatic. The 240Z boasted impressive acceleration, excellent handling, and a top speed of around 125 mph (201 km/h), making it a thrilling driving experience.

## Production Numbers:
During its production run from 1970 to 1973, Datsun manufactured a total of 30,938 240Z cars for the U.S. market. These numbers include all model years, so it is difficult to pinpoint the exact production figures for the 1973 model alone. However, the 240Z's overall popularity and high demand contributed to its significant production numbers, making it a successful and iconic sports car of its time.

The 1973 Datsun 240Z remains highly regarded by enthusiasts and collectors today for its timeless design, engaging driving experience, and historical significance as one of the pioneers of Japanese sports cars.
